Political office ran in his blood: his grandfather, John Spencer-Churchill had been a Member of Parliament serving under Benjamin Disraeli, whilst his father Lord Randolph Churchill was MP for Woodstock. On his mother’s side he was of American descendant. Jennie Jerome was a beautiful lady from a wealthy family who had caught Randolph’s eye in August 1873; three days later they were engaged. As they say, the rest is history. A young Winston Churchill led quite a dour life early on, unhappy in childhood and failing to get the grades at Harrow, his interest in the military proved to be his saving grace. His father decided it would be a good idea for him to enter the army as a profession and after the third attempt he passed the necessary exams and entered what is now Sandhurst Academy. Whilst at military college he managed to acquire the skills and knowledge to graduate in the top twenty of around one hundred and thirty pupils in the class. In 1895 his father sadly passed away and a young Winston joined the Royal Cavalry. Whilst on leave he entered the world of journalism which found him reporting on the Cuban War of Independence from Spain. By the following year he found himself back in the regiment and travelling to India, where he worked as both a soldier and journalist. He remained posted there for around nineteen months in which time he took part in expeditions to Hyderabad and the North West Frontier. As part of the British Army and working as a correspondent reporting for newspapers back in Britain, he travelled to India, Sudan and South Africa, documenting the unfolding events via newspaper articles and later turning some of the accounts into successful books. During this time he also proved to be outspoken about the issues he witnessed and the handling of events. For example, he did not approve of Kitchener’s treatment of injured captured soldiers during the Anglo-Sudan war. During the Second Boer War, after escaping as a prisoner of war and making his way to Pretoria, he served as a lieutenant in the South African Light Horse regiment and was outspoken in his criticism of the British hatred of the Boers. Upon his return to Britain, Churchill threw himself into political life and in 1900 became a Conservative Member of Parliament for the constituency of Oldham. Only four years later he would change his allegiance to the Liberal Party, commenting about himself in a correspondence that he had “drifted steadily to the left”. He had increasingly associated himself with the Liberals in parliament and aligned himself to several of their interests. In 1903 he had backed the Liberal vote against the use of Chinese labourers in South Africa and favoured a bill which restored the rights of trade unions. He had also been an outspoken critic of the Conservative policy of economic protectionism. His drift towards the Liberals proved inevitable and so when Balfour resigned and the Liberal leader Henry Campbell-Bannerman won, Churchill switched sides and won the seat of Manchester North West. In this early position he served as Under-Secretary of State for the Colonial Office. In this role he was largely involved with decision-making in South Africa where he prioritised making sure equality was established between both parties, the Boers and the British. He maintained a strong stance on issues pertaining to Chinese labour in South Africa and the butchery of Europeans against the natives. Later he would serve under a new Liberal leader. Under Asquith he served in a variety of roles including President of the Board of Trade, Home Secretary and First Lord of the Admiralty. In these roles he was instrumental in reforming prisons, acting as a conciliator during industrial disputes, boosting naval workers morale and arguing for higher pay for the navy. He was steadily climbing the ranks of the Liberal party. In 1914 everything changed with the outbreak of the First World War. Churchill served as the First Lord of the Admiralty which unfortunately involved bad decisions when he oversaw and instigated the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign. As a direct result of its failure and facing heavy criticism back home, he resigned from his position and travelled to the Western Front to fight.